src/pages/using-spark/guides/writing-meaningful-web-content-with-semantic-html.mdx, before:

---
title: Writing Meaningful Web Content With Semantic HTML
---

import {
  SprkHeading,
  SprkLink,
  SprkDivider,
} from '@sparkdesignsystem/spark-react';

<h1 class="sprk-b-PageTitle sprk-b-TypeDisplayOne sprk-u-mbl sprk-u-Measure">
  Writing Meaningful Web Content with Semantic HTML
</h1>

Typically, in a word document, writers bold or italicize text to add emphasis to the copy.

When producing web content, **HTML elements** define the structure, purpose and intended meaning of a page's web content.

<SprkDivider element="span" additionalClasses="sprk-u-mvn" />

### Main Takeaways

- Use HTML elements to define the structure and meaning of a web page's content to make it easier for users to understand.
- Know the purpose of each element to understand when to use it and to ensure the content can be accessed by assistive technologies.
- Use the correct element to ensure the content communicates the intended meaning.
- Adding keywords inside a page's content structure increases.

Here are some benefits of using semantic HTML:

- It's easier for engineers to understand and to develop with.
- **Create faster, responsive, and better mobile user experiences.** It's easier to make responsive, have reduced file size, and load faster.
- **Keywords inside documents make them easier to find.** Search engines give more importance to those that have them.

<SprkDivider element="span" additionalClasses="sprk-u-mvn" />

### Table of Contents

<ul>
  <li>
    <a href="#html-elements">HTML Elements</a>
  </li>
  <ul class="sprk-b-List sprk-b-List--indented sprk-u-Measure sprk-u-mvs">
    <li>
      <a href="#creating-elements-using-tags">Creating Elements Using Tags</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="#common-html-elements-for-ux-writers">
        Common HTML Elements For UX writers
      </a>
    </li>
  </ul>
  <li>
    <a href="#semantic-elements">Semantic Elements</a>
  </li>
  <ul class="sprk-b-List sprk-b-List--indented sprk-u-Measure sprk-u-mvs">
    <li>
      <a href="#the-strong-element">The Strong Element</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="#strong-vs-bold-vs-css-styling">Strong vs Bold vs CSS Styling</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="#the-emphasis-element">The Emphasis Element</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="#emphasis-vs-italic">Emphasis vs Italic</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
  <li>
    <a href="#accessibility">Accessibility</a>
  </li>
</ul>

<SprkDivider element="span" additionalClasses="sprk-u-mvn" />

## HTML Elements

HTML consists of series of elements, which enclose, or wrap pieces of content they appear or act a certain way.

Elements describe or represent the meaning, structure, or context to web browsers, developers, and users of assistive technologies.

> For more information, visit <a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element"> Mozilla's Developer Documentation - HTML elements</a>.

As a UX Writer, it's important to:

- **Understand** what is the purpose of the enclosed text.
- **Know** what element to use depending on the purpose of the text.
- **Ensure** we are communicating the intended meaning of the enclosed text to the users.

<SprkDivider element="span" additionalClasses="sprk-u-mvn" />

### Creating Elements Using Tags

Use **HTML tags** to create an element. These tags represent the start and end of a piece of content.

An element consists of three main parts:

- An **opening tag** that represents the start of the paragraph element.
- **Content** within the tags.
- A **closing tag** that represents where the element ends.

<h3 class="sprk-b-TypeDisplayFour sprk-u-mbm sprk-u-Measure">
  Example
</h3>

`<p>` Download the Rocket Homes mobile application on your mobile device to start looking for your dream home.`</p>`

- The `<p>` represents the start of the paragraph element.
- The content is the enclosed text (<i>"Download the Rocket.... " </i>) inside the tags.
- The `</p>` represents where the element ends.

<SprkDivider element="span" additionalClasses="sprk-u-mvn" />

### Common HTML Elements For UX Writers

Use the strong and emphasis elements, to ensure users can perceive the semantic meaning indicated by the visual treatment, even if they’re using assistive technology like a screen reader.

- The **strong element** `<strong></strong>`, defines text with strong importance.
- The **emphasis element** `<em></em>`, defines text with stressed emphasis.

> As a general rule, **don't use** the **bold** or the **italic** elements if there is a more descriptive and relevant tag available. Instead, use for formatting and to display special types of text.

- The **bold element** `<b></b>` , draws attention to the element's contents, without extra importance.

- The **italic or idiomatic text element** `<i></i>`, defines a part of text in an alternate voice or mood.

<SprkDivider element="span" additionalClasses="sprk-u-mvn" />

## Semantic Elements

When web elements are meaningful and contextual, that means it's **semantic**. Producing content with Semantic HTML ensures accessibility to as many people as possible.

- [The Strong Element](#the-strong-element)
- [The Emphasis Element](#the-emphasis-element)

> To view a list of all the HTML elements available to add semantic meaning to copy, refer to [MDN’s Semantic element list](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element#inline_text_semantics).

<SprkDivider element="span" additionalClasses="sprk-u-mvn" />

### The Strong Element

The <strong>strong element</strong> indicates strong importance, seriousness, or urgency of the enclosed text inside the `<strong></strong>` tags.

> By default web browsers, render the contents inside strong tags in **bold type**.

<h3 class="sprk-b-TypeDisplayFour sprk-u-mbm sprk-u-Measure">
  Usage
</h3>

- Referencing the name of a page
- Representing strong importance of it's contents
- Adding importance or urgency to pieces of a sentence

<h3 class="sprk-b-TypeDisplayFour sprk-u-mbm sprk-u-Measure">
  Examples
</h3>

- Check your **To Do List** items for new tasks.
  - Check your `<strong>To Do List</strong>` items for new tasks.
- You can change your communication preferences on **My Profile**.
  - You can change your communication preferences on `<strong>My Profile</strong>`.
- **Your payment is due** on September 22, 2021.
  - `<strong>Your payment is due</strong>` on September 22, 2021.
- Remember to bring your **driver’s license** to your closing appointment.
  - Remember to bring your `<strong>driver’s license</strong>` to your closing appointment.

### Strong vs Bold vs CSS Styling

- Use the **strong element** `<strong></strong>` to communicate importance or urgency.

> The **bold element**, **italic element** and **CSS styling** are purely presentational.

- Use the <b>bold element</b> `<b></b>` to bring attention to text without indicating that it's more important.
  - Use for:
    - Drawing the reader's attention to the elements contents, which aren't of special importance
    - Keywords in a summary and for product names in a review
- Use **CSS** (Cascade Styling Sheet) to style or decorate text. CSS styling **does not** add semantic meaning to content, unlike the strong element.
  - For example, the <a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/font-weight"> font-weight style property</a> adds weight to text, making it appear bolder.

<SprkDivider element="span" additionalClasses="sprk-u-mvn" />

### The Emphasis Element

Use the **emphasis** element to give "stressed emphasis" to the enclosed text inside the `<em></em>` tags, in the same way verbal stress works.

- By default, web browsers render the contents inside the emphasis tags as <i>italic type.</i>

- A screen reader will pronounce the words inside the **emphasis** element `<em></em>` tags with an emphasis, using verbal stress.

> As a UX Writer, it is important to know when to apply **emphasis** to text because it can **change the meaning** of the sentence.

<h3 class="sprk-b-TypeDisplayFour sprk-u-mbm sprk-u-Measure">
  Usage
</h3>

- Words that have a stressed emphasis compared to surrounding text.
  - For example: Our family <em>loves</em> spending summers on the beach.
- Changing the meaning of a sentence.
  - For example: We found the perfect house, let's put an offer <em>
    now
      </em>!
- Referencing a specific instance of microcopy within the web page that users can take action on.
  - For example: <em>
    Find Brokers Near Me
      </em> to connect with a broker in your community.

<h3 class="sprk-b-TypeDisplayFour sprk-u-mbm sprk-u-Measure">
  Examples
</h3>

- Sort by <em>Submitted</em> to see the loans you’ve already completed.
  - Sort by `<em>Submitted</em>` to see the loans you’ve already completed.
- Select <em>I don’t have a preference </em> from the dropdown if you change your mind.
  - Select `<em>I don’t have a preference </em>` from the dropdown if you change your mind.

### Emphasis vs Italic

- Use the **emphasis element** `<em></em>` to indicate stress emphasis.
- Use the **italic element** `<i></i>` for text that is set off from the normal prose, like an alternate tone or mood.
  - Use for:
    - Technical terms
    - Transliterations
    - Taxonomical designations, like: "Homo Sapiens"

<SprkDivider element="span" additionalClasses="sprk-u-mvn" />

## Accessibility

Use semantic HTML to ensure digital experiences are inclusive to all users and accessible by assistive technologies.

Our guides are not all-inclusive. Refer to the [Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG 2.1, Level AA)- Semantic Elements](https://www.w3.org/TR/2016/REC-html51-20161101/dom.html#elements) for more insights.

Commit message:

removed sprk heading component, fixed takeaway

src/pages/using-spark/guides/writing-meaningful-web-content-with-semantic-html.mdx, after:

---
title: Writing Meaningful Web Content With Semantic HTML
---

import {
  SprkLink,
  SprkDivider,
} from '@sparkdesignsystem/spark-react';

<h1 class="sprk-b-PageTitle sprk-b-TypeDisplayOne sprk-u-mbl sprk-u-Measure">
  Writing Meaningful Web Content with Semantic HTML
</h1>

Typically, in a word document, writers bold or italicize text to add emphasis to the copy.

When producing web content, **HTML elements** define the structure, purpose and intended meaning of a page's web content.

<SprkDivider element="span" additionalClasses="sprk-u-mvn" />

### Main Takeaways

- Use HTML elements to define the structure and meaning of a web page's content to make it easier for users to understand.
- Know the purpose of each element to understand when to use it and to ensure the content can be accessed by assistive technologies.
- Use the correct element to ensure the content communicates the intended meaning.
- Make documents more findable for users. Search engines give more importance to documents with keywords inside headings and links.

Here are some benefits of using semantic HTML:

- It's easier for engineers to understand and to develop with.
- **Create faster, responsive, and better mobile user experiences.** It's easier to make responsive, have reduced file size, and load faster.
- **Keywords inside documents make them easier to find.** Search engines give more importance to those that have them.

<SprkDivider element="span" additionalClasses="sprk-u-mvn" />

### Table of Contents

<ul>
  <li>
    <a href="#html-elements">HTML Elements</a>
  </li>
  <ul class="sprk-b-List sprk-b-List--indented sprk-u-Measure sprk-u-mvs">
    <li>
      <a href="#creating-elements-using-tags">Creating Elements Using Tags</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="#common-html-elements-for-ux-writers">
        Common HTML Elements For UX writers
      </a>
    </li>
  </ul>
  <li>
    <a href="#semantic-elements">Semantic Elements</a>
  </li>
  <ul class="sprk-b-List sprk-b-List--indented sprk-u-Measure sprk-u-mvs">
    <li>
      <a href="#the-strong-element">The Strong Element</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="#strong-vs-bold-vs-css-styling">Strong vs Bold vs CSS Styling</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="#the-emphasis-element">The Emphasis Element</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="#emphasis-vs-italic">Emphasis vs Italic</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
  <li>
    <a href="#accessibility">Accessibility</a>
  </li>
</ul>

<SprkDivider element="span" additionalClasses="sprk-u-mvn" />

## HTML Elements

HTML consists of series of elements, which enclose, or wrap pieces of content they appear or act a certain way.

Elements describe or represent the meaning, structure, or context to web browsers, developers, and users of assistive technologies.

> For more information, visit <a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element"> Mozilla's Developer Documentation - HTML elements</a>.

As a UX Writer, it's important to:

- **Understand** what is the purpose of the enclosed text.
- **Know** what element to use depending on the purpose of the text.
- **Ensure** we are communicating the intended meaning of the enclosed text to the users.

<SprkDivider element="span" additionalClasses="sprk-u-mvn" />

### Creating Elements Using Tags

Use **HTML tags** to create an element. These tags represent the start and end of a piece of content.

An element consists of three main parts:

- An **opening tag** that represents the start of the paragraph element.
- **Content** within the tags.
- A **closing tag** that represents where the element ends.

<h3 class="sprk-b-TypeDisplayFour sprk-u-mbm sprk-u-Measure">
  Example
</h3>

`<p>` Download the Rocket Homes mobile application on your mobile device to start looking for your dream home.`</p>`

- The `<p>` represents the start of the paragraph element.
- The content is the enclosed text (<i>"Download the Rocket.... " </i>) inside the tags.
- The `</p>` represents where the element ends.

<SprkDivider element="span" additionalClasses="sprk-u-mvn" />

### Common HTML Elements For UX Writers

Use the strong and emphasis elements, to ensure users can perceive the semantic meaning indicated by the visual treatment, even if they’re using assistive technology like a screen reader.

- The **strong element** `<strong></strong>`, defines text with strong importance.
- The **emphasis element** `<em></em>`, defines text with stressed emphasis.

> As a general rule, **don't use** the **bold** or the **italic** elements if there is a more descriptive and relevant tag available. Instead, use for formatting and to display special types of text.

- The **bold element** `<b></b>` , draws attention to the element's contents, without extra importance.

- The **italic or idiomatic text element** `<i></i>`, defines a part of text in an alternate voice or mood.

<SprkDivider element="span" additionalClasses="sprk-u-mvn" />

## Semantic Elements

When web elements are meaningful and contextual, that means it's **semantic**. Producing content with Semantic HTML ensures accessibility to as many people as possible.

- [The Strong Element](#the-strong-element)
- [The Emphasis Element](#the-emphasis-element)

> To view a list of all the HTML elements available to add semantic meaning to copy, refer to [MDN’s Semantic element list](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element#inline_text_semantics).

<SprkDivider element="span" additionalClasses="sprk-u-mvn" />

### The Strong Element

The <strong>strong element</strong> indicates strong importance, seriousness, or urgency of the enclosed text inside the `<strong></strong>` tags.

> By default web browsers, render the contents inside strong tags in **bold type**.

<h3 class="sprk-b-TypeDisplayFour sprk-u-mbm sprk-u-Measure">
  Usage
</h3>

- Referencing the name of a page
- Representing strong importance of it's contents
- Adding importance or urgency to pieces of a sentence

<h3 class="sprk-b-TypeDisplayFour sprk-u-mbm sprk-u-Measure">
  Examples
</h3>

- Check your **To Do List** items for new tasks.
  - Check your `<strong>To Do List</strong>` items for new tasks.
- You can change your communication preferences on **My Profile**.
  - You can change your communication preferences on `<strong>My Profile</strong>`.
- **Your payment is due** on September 22, 2021.
  - `<strong>Your payment is due</strong>` on September 22, 2021.
- Remember to bring your **driver’s license** to your closing appointment.
  - Remember to bring your `<strong>driver’s license</strong>` to your closing appointment.

### Strong vs Bold vs CSS Styling

- Use the **strong element** `<strong></strong>` to communicate importance or urgency.

> The **bold element**, **italic element** and **CSS styling** are purely presentational.

- Use the <b>bold element</b> `<b></b>` to bring attention to text without indicating that it's more important.
  - Use for:
    - Drawing the reader's attention to the elements contents, which aren't of special importance
    - Keywords in a summary and for product names in a review
- Use **CSS** (Cascade Styling Sheet) to style or decorate text. CSS styling **does not** add semantic meaning to content, unlike the strong element.
  - For example, the <a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/font-weight"> font-weight style property</a> adds weight to text, making it appear bolder.

<SprkDivider element="span" additionalClasses="sprk-u-mvn" />

### The Emphasis Element

Use the **emphasis** element to give "stressed emphasis" to the enclosed text inside the `<em></em>` tags, in the same way verbal stress works.

- By default, web browsers render the contents inside the emphasis tags as <i>italic type.</i>

- A screen reader will pronounce the words inside the **emphasis** element `<em></em>` tags with an emphasis, using verbal stress.

> As a UX Writer, it is important to know when to apply **emphasis** to text because it can **change the meaning** of the sentence.

<h3 class="sprk-b-TypeDisplayFour sprk-u-mbm sprk-u-Measure">
  Usage
</h3>

- Words that have a stressed emphasis compared to surrounding text.
  - For example: Our family <em>loves</em> spending summers on the beach.
- Changing the meaning of a sentence.
  - For example: We found the perfect house, let's put an offer <em>
    now
      </em>!
- Referencing a specific instance of microcopy within the web page that users can take action on.
  - For example: <em>
    Find Brokers Near Me
      </em> to connect with a broker in your community.

<h3 class="sprk-b-TypeDisplayFour sprk-u-mbm sprk-u-Measure">
  Examples
</h3>

- Sort by <em>Submitted</em> to see the loans you’ve already completed.
  - Sort by `<em>Submitted</em>` to see the loans you’ve already completed.
- Select <em>I don’t have a preference </em> from the dropdown if you change your mind.
  - Select `<em>I don’t have a preference </em>` from the dropdown if you change your mind.

### Emphasis vs Italic

- Use the **emphasis element** `<em></em>` to indicate stress emphasis.
- Use the **italic element** `<i></i>` for text that is set off from the normal prose, like an alternate tone or mood.
  - Use for:
    - Technical terms
    - Transliterations
    - Taxonomical designations, like: "Homo Sapiens"

<SprkDivider element="span" additionalClasses="sprk-u-mvn" />

## Accessibility

Use semantic HTML to ensure digital experiences are inclusive to all users and accessible by assistive technologies.

Our guides are not all-inclusive. Refer to the [Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG 2.1, Level AA)- Semantic Elements](https://www.w3.org/TR/2016/REC-html51-20161101/dom.html#elements) for more insights.
