src/pages/installing-spark/html-add-components.mdx, before:

---
  title: HTML - Adding Components
  order: 3
---

import spinnergif from '../../images/installing-spark/html/html-spinner.gif';

> This the final Part of a 3-Part series. You can also check out
[Part 1 - Setting Up Your Environment](/installing-spark/html-environment-setup) and
[Part 2 - Installation](/installing-spark/html-installation).

# Installing Spark in an HTML Project
This guide will cover how to add components for HTML, CSS and JavaScript.
Our <a href="https://github.com/sparkdesignsystem/spark-starter-html/" target="_blank">starter repository</a>
is available for reference.

For instructions on setting up Spark in other environments, check out the
guides for [Angular](/installing-spark/angular) and [React](/installing-spark/react).

## Adding Your First Spark Component
Adding a Spinner Button can confirm you've installed Spark's Styles and Javascript correctly.

1. Add Spark Button code into your `index.html` and include an `onclick` and a `data-id`.
``` html
  <button
    class="sprk-c-Button"
    data-id="button-spinner-1"
    onclick="startSpinner()"
  >
    Submit
  </button>
```
> **Note**: Inside the `<body>` tag of `index.html`, the line `<script src="main.js"></script>` should be after
any other HTML elements.

2. In the `main.js` file, import `setSpinning` from Spark and create a `startSpinner` function (this is the function that will run `onclick`).
```javascript
import { setSpinning } from '@sparkdesignsystem/spark';

window.startSpinner = () => {
  const spinningButton = document.querySelector('[data-id="button-spinner-1"]');
  setSpinning(spinningButton, {});
}
```

3. Build your app with `npm run build`, and you should find a Spark Button that loads a Spinner on click.

<div class="sprk-u-Measure">
  <img
    class="sprk-u-mbm"
    style="margin: auto; display: block;"
    src={spinnergif}
    alt="A Spark Button Spinner component."/>
</div>

> Learn more about Buttons and Spinner functionality in the [Button Storybook documentation](https://html.sparkdesignsystem.com/?path=/docs/components-button--primary).


## Finding the code to other Spark Components

1. Go to the [Spark HTML Storybook](https://html.sparkdesignsystem.com/)
2. In the "Components" section, find the one you need.
3. Navigate to the *Docs* tab. It's typically at the top of screen next to *Canvas*.
4. Navigate down the page until you find your component variant.
5. The *Show code* button will present you code to copy and paste into your project.

> Storybook code samples represent the rendered state
after Spark's JavaScript functions run. Some functionality requires additional engineering.
The *Docs* section of each page will give implementation details for each component.


## You did it!

You’re ready to start building with Spark!

## Additional Topics

* The [Icon Installation Guide](/installing-spark/installing-icons) for
importing the Spark SVG icon set.
* The [Font Installation Guide](/installing-spark/installing-fonts) for
instructions on using the Rocket Sans font.

Commit message:

Update html installation documentation for clarity

src/pages/installing-spark/html-add-components.mdx, after:

---
  title: HTML - Adding Components
  order: 3
---

import spinnergif from '../../images/installing-spark/html/html-spinner.gif';

> This the final Part of a 3-Part series. You can also check out
[Part 1 - Setting Up Your Environment](/installing-spark/html-environment-setup) and
[Part 2 - Installation](/installing-spark/html-installation).

# Part 3: Adding Spark Components in an HTML Project
This guide will cover how to add components for HTML, CSS and JavaScript.

Our <a href="https://github.com/sparkdesignsystem/spark-starter-html/" target="_blank">Starter Github Repositories</a> are available for reference:
- ['kitchen-sink' branch](https://github.com/sparkdesignsystem/spark-starter-html/tree/kitchen-sink) (Spark Installed with component examples.)
- ['without-spark' branch](https://github.com/sparkdesignsystem/spark-starter-html/tree/kitchen-sink) (all of the prerequisites before Spark Installation.)

For instructions on setting up Spark in other environments, check out the
guides for [Angular](/installing-spark/angular) and [React](/installing-spark/react).

## Adding Your First Spark Component
Adding a Spinner Button can confirm you've installed Spark's Styles and Javascript correctly.

1. Add Spark Button code into your `index.html` and include an `onclick` and a `data-id`.
``` html
  <button
    class="sprk-c-Button"
    data-id="button-spinner-1"
    onclick="startSpinner()"
  >
    Start Spinning
  </button>
```
> **Note**: Inside the `<body>` tag of `index.html`, the line `<script src="main.js"></script>` should be after
any other HTML elements.

2. In the `main.js` file, import `setSpinning` from Spark and create a `startSpinner` function (this is the function that will run `onclick`).
```javascript
import { setSpinning } from '@sparkdesignsystem/spark';

window.startSpinner = () => {
  const spinningButton = document.querySelector('[data-id="button-spinner-1"]');
  setSpinning(spinningButton, {});
}
```

3. Build your app with `npm run build`, and you should find a Spark Button that loads a Spinner on click.

<div class="sprk-u-Measure">
  <img
    class="sprk-u-mbm"
    style="margin: auto; display: block;"
    src={spinnergif}
    alt="A Spark Button Spinner component."/>
</div>

> Learn more about Buttons and Spinner functionality in the [Button Storybook documentation](https://html.sparkdesignsystem.com/?path=/docs/components-button--primary).


## Finding the code to other Spark Components

1. Go to the [Spark HTML Storybook](https://html.sparkdesignsystem.com/)
2. Find the Component you need in the "Components" section.
3. Navigate to the *Docs* tab. It's typically at the top of screen next to *Canvas*.
4. Navigate down the page until you find your component variant.
5. The *Show code* button will toggle a code sample.

> These code samples represent the *rendered state*
after Spark's JavaScript functions run. Some functionality requires additional engineering.
The *Docs* section of each page will give implementation details for each component.


## Additional Topics

* The [Icon Installation Guide](/installing-spark/installing-icons) for
importing the Spark SVG icon set.
* The [Font Installation Guide](/installing-spark/installing-fonts) for
instructions on using the Rocket Sans font.
